Max reads more than anyone he knows. He loves to read during all
of his free time. His friends tease him because he would rather read
than play video games, but his parents and his
teachers are proud of him. They say reading is
important, and it will help him learn about the
world around him. They also tell him it is a good
habit to read on a regular basis.
One day Max was reading a magazine article
about volcanoes. He told his friends all about
volcanoes and what causes them to erupt. The
very next week, his class was assigned a science
project about volcanoes. Guess who everyone wanted in their
project group? Max’s friends weren’t teasing him anymore.
Max ended up being in a group with Liz, Anna and Josh. The
assignment was to create a poster board with information about
volcanoes and to build a volcano model.
Max made copies of the magazine article about volcanoes so his
project partners could read about them too. They also went to the
library to look for more information about volcanoes.

Grade 3 Reading Comprehension Worksheet
Reading and Math for K-5 © www.k5learning.com
The group met at Anna’s house that night to organize the
information and decide what they wanted to put on the poster
board. They all asked Max what he thought was most important.
Then they decided on the following together.
What causes volcanoes to erupt? The release of pressure when
magma rises up through cracks in the Earth’s crust
causes volcanoes to erupt.
How do volcanoes form? Lava from eruptions
cools and forms new crust. The crust builds up
after several eruptions to form a volcano.
How hot is lava? Lava can get as hot as 1,165 Fahrenheit.
The next night they met at Josh’s house to build their volcano. They
used cardboard and modeling clay. First they made a volcano
shape with the cardboard, and then they covered the shape in
brown and red clay. The red was lava flowing down the volcano.
They also attached red clay to the top of the volcano to make it
look like it was erupting.
The volcano looked great. Max, Liz, Anna and Josh were very proud
of their hard work. When they turned in their project, their teacher
was proud too. Thanks to Max’s good habit, they earned an A+ on
both parts of the project.